		Additional Operations		Transformations		Iconographer supports a set of simple transformations that can be applied to the current icon or selection. All of them can be access from the Transform sub-menu under the Edit menu. The first set of transformations are rotations. They rotate the current icon or selection 90 degrees in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction. The next set of commands deal with horizontal and vertical flips. They mirror the image across the Y and X axes respectively. Finally, the Invert command changes the color to it's complement (e.g. blue becomes yellow, and vice-versa).	Color Adjustments		Iconographer allows you to perform various color adjustments to the current icon or selection. You can change the hue and saturation, in addition to the brightness and contrast. All of these commands are accessed from the Adjust command, under the Edit menu. You can use the sliders to change any of the parameters. In addition, there is a checkbox, Real-time preview, which allows you to see the results while you're moving the sliders, instead of just at the end.	Hue is the color of the image. By changing the hue, you are effectively shifting the colors across the spectrum. The saturation of the image is the purity of the color, with gray being the least saturated, and the color at 100% intensity being the most saturated. In addition, there is a colorize checkbox, which allows you to replace all of the colors in the icon or selection with the ones specified in the hue slider.	The contrast of the image is the ratio between the brightest and darkest areas in an image. So, increasing the contrast increases this ratio, thus making the differences between dark and light areas more apparent. Brightness, as its name suggests, is the overall intensity of an image, so a very bright image would appear to be washed out while one with a low brightness would be dark.	Table of Contents		Icon Basics		Icon Sizes		As it is visible in the Finder, icons can be displayed at more than one size. The most common ones are the large view (32 by 32 pixels) and the small view (16 by 16 pixels). Although you can just create one size, and let it be scaled automatically, better results are yielded if you draw each size by hand.	In addition to the above mentioned sizes, there are two additional ones which are not normally used. The huge size (48 by 48 pixels) isn't used at all by the current Mac OS Finder, but it does show up in Mac OS X Server (and presumably will be used in the consumer release of Mac OS X). The mini size (16 by 12 pixels) is used very rarely, and thus no support for it is provided in the current version of Iconographer.	Icon Depths		Within each icon size, there can be various bit depths. This means that you can have a separate icon for black and white, 16 colors, 256 colors and millions of colors. The Finder automatically chooses the depth based on the number of colors available on the screen. Again, although you can simply draw one depth and leave it to the OS to extrapolate the others, you will usually get better results by drawing all the depths by hand.	Icon Masks		It may not be immediately apparent that each icon is actually composed of two parts, the icon picture itself, and a mask. This mask acts as a cutout, determining which pixels of the icon show through, and which ones are left alone. The picture below shows an icon mask in action:		As you can see, the desktop is visible though the parts of the mask which have been left out. This simple mask only has two possible values, black, where the icon shows through, and white where the background is visible. Mac OS 8.5 introduces an additional mask, an 8-bit one. This new mask allows 256 possible values, ranging from white to black. As before, white means that the background is completely visible while black means that the icon shows through. The gray values in-between are used to blend the background and the icon. For example, a dark gray would yield a blend of the background and icon which would be weighed towards the icon. The picture below shows an example of an 8-bit mask:		It is clearly visible that the edge of the circle blends in with the desktop. If the icon were to be moved onto a different background, then it would blend in with that. The 8 bit mask can be used to create visual effects such as semi-transparency/translucency, anti-aliasing and drop shadows.Table of Contents		Program Info	Iconographer 1.0Created by: Mihai ParparitaPublished by: Mscape SoftwareWho is to blame?		Arlo Rose provided the impetus to start this program. Eventually, under the development name of Icon Mangler, it became my Computer Science IB Higher Dossier project, and was submitted to the commission on April 14 (scores are still pending). After a month-long break, I started programming again, and added four more tools. Then Arlo showed his head again. Based on certain suggestions made by him, Iconographer acquired Windows and Mac OS X Server icon support, a new icon and about box, pattern support, and other little tweaks. Many thanks go to Arlo for his feeback through Iconographer's development process.	Testers		Arlo Rose, Michael Robinette, David Catmull, Daniel Bogan, Andreas C. Bauer, Emy Parparita, Michael Coyle, Jarvis Badgley, Lance Robertson, William Martin	Tools		Code Warrior, Resorcerer, Adobe Photoshop, BBEdit, and Spotlight.	Version History		1.0 August 26, 1999		Initial Release		Table of Contents		Introduction	What is Iconographer?		Iconographer is a an icon editor. It allows you to both change the icons of items, as well as edit the icon resources used by various programs. Iconographer has been created from the ground up to edit the new, Mac OS 8.5+, 32-bit icons with 8-bit masks. In addition, it allows you to work with icons from other platforms (at this moment, Windows .ico files and Mac OS X Server .tiff files). At the same time, it works on any Power Macintosh that has the Appearance Manager installed.		Iconographer is shareware, if you find yourself using it often, please pay the $15 fee. Registrations are handled by Kagi, an established shareware payment service run by Kee Nethery. For more details on registration, please see the registration info page.	How do I use Iconographer?		Iconographer attempts to follow all of the established Mac OS human interface guidelines. If previous you have used any graphics editor, you should be familiar with the manner in which Iconographer operates. A typical editing session might look something like this:1Open a file or folder with Iconographer.This can be done either by dragging a file onto Iconographer's icon, or by using the Open Icon command from the File menu.2Edit the icon with the provided tools.More info is available in the Tools section.3Save the icon and quit Iconographer.Iconographer saves in both the new Mac OS 8.5+ icon format, and the old one for previous systems, thus your icons will be visible to all users. In addition, Iconographer supports saving in the Windows .ico format.Table of Contents		Working With Other Platforms	Windows Icons		Iconographer supports both the loading and the saving of icons in the .ico Windows format. The resulting files can then be transferred to a machine running Windows 95/98, where they can be used just like any other icon. To load a Windows icon, select the Windows Icon command from the Open sub-menu under the File menu. Once you select a file, it will be placed in an editor window, where you can work with it just like you would with any other icon. One thing to note is that the Windows icon format does not support 8-bit masking, thus any such data will be lost when saving.	Mac OS X Server Icons		Iconographer supports the loading of icons in the .tiff Mac OS X Server format when QuickTime 4.0 is installed. Loading is done by selecting the Mac OS X Icon command from the Open sub-menu under the File menu. Once you select a file, it will be placed in an editor window, where you can work with it just like you would with any other icon. Saving of icons in this format will be present in a future version.	Table of Contents		Integration With Other Programs	Integration with Other Programs		Iconographer recognizes the fact that it might not be the only tool you use to create icons. With the advent of 32-bit icons, it becomes more and more appealing to use professional applications such as Adobe Photoshop to create icons, and leave only the final tweaking to tools such as Iconographer.	Once you have the icon in the state you like, there are two ways of getting it into Iconographer. One is the traditional copy and paste method, the other is through drag-and-drop. You can drag images into the editing area (the dragged item will be placed into a floating selection, as well into the various icon and masks slots on the right side. 	If the program supports enhanced transparency data (such as in Adobe Photoshop's layers), Iconographer can import that data as masks. This can be done through the Paste as Icon and Mask command, or by dragging and dropping the image into the preview area. The image will be split up into an icon and a mask, and the results will be merged with the current icon contents (if any).	Table of Contents		Preferences	Preferences		The preferences (found under the Edit menu) allow you to control some features of Iconographer. Below is a description of each one of them.Default zoom level:  This setting determines the magnification level at which editors will be opened. You can still change the zoom level for each editor individually, but if you find yourself zoomed in a lot for all of the icons you open, you might want to bump up this setting.Show pixel grid:  Enabling this option (it is off by default) shows a thin grid between the magnified pixels. It is useful when you are counting pixels, since the separation makes it much easier to see where pixels (even of the same color) start and end.Check sync between 8-bit and 1-bit masks:  If enabled, this option makes sure that the 8-bit and 1-bit masks match up. If they don't, a kind of "pixel build-up" can occur when an icon is selected.Dither when copying down to lower depths:  This option dithers images when they are copied down to lower bit depths (for example, for 32-bits to 8-bits). Dithering is the use of a pattern to simulate colors.Generate old-style icons:  When enabled, the icons that Iconographer saves will contain be both in the new Mac OS 8.5 format, and in the old-style format used by previous versions of the Mac OS.Startup Options:  This set of radio buttons allows you to determine what action Iconographer will perform on start-up. By default it creates a new, empty, icon, but it can also be made to automatically select an icon to open, or simply stay open and do nothing.	Table of Contents		Registration	Registration		Iconographer is shareware; it is NOT free. If you use it for more than a few icons you should pay a $15 registration fee. Registrations for Iconographer are handled by the Kagi Shareware service run by Kee Nethery. In addition to cash in various currencies and US dollar checks drawn on US banks, Kagi Shareware also accepts credit card registrations by snail-mail or e-mail (your card number is scrambled). For organizations, they handle invoices and site licenses, too. To register please use the enclosed Register application or register online. You will receive a registration code from Kagi, and when you enter that and your name in the registration dialog (available from the Apple menu) the reminder will be disabled.	Table of Contents		Selections	Selection States		A selection can be in two states, either un-floated or floated. When a selection is first made (using the various selection tools), it is in the un-floated state. This means that there is nothing "behind" it, that it is still part of the main image. Once a selection is moved, it is floated, that is it can glide above the rest of the image, and can thus be considered to be a separate layer. When moving a previously un-floated selection, a "hole" filled with the background color is left behind in the image. When items are pasted or dragged in, they are placed in floating selections.	Additive and Subtractive Selections		In most graphical programs, once a selection is made, its shape cannot be altered. However, Iconographer gives you much better control over selections. It is possible to add or subtract from a selection, thus greatly easing the process of creating irregular shapes. To add to a selection, hold down shift before using a selection tool. Then the new selection shape will be added to (instead of replacing) the current selection. Similarly, to subtract from a selection, hold down option before using a selection tool. Then the new selection shape will be subtracted from the current selection.	Table of Contents		Shortcuts and Tips	Getting More Help		In addition to this HTML-based help, Iconographer also supports balloon help. Simply select Show Balloons from the Help menu, and then point at the thing that interests you (menus, dialogs, and items in the editing window all work), and more details will be given in the balloon that pops up.	If you still have more questions about Iconographer, you can contact us at iconographer@mscape.com and we'll do our best to help you.	Keyboard Shortcuts		All of the selection and drawing tools have shortcuts, they are mentioned on the tools page. In addition, the color swatch has shortcuts for the two commands it supports. For the resetting of the colors to the default (black and white), D can be used. For the swapping of the foreground and background colors, X is the keyboard method.	Although it is probably obvious that delete fills a selection with the background color (or removes it if it is floated), another shortcut is to hold down option while deleting, to fill it with the foreground color.	To quickly cycle between the current icon and mask, the tab can be used.	To copy one depth to another, the option key can be held down before a selection is made from the pop-up menu. The cursor will turn into the standard copy cursor, and the new selection is made, the contents will be copied (and dithered if the option is enabled) to the new selection.	Drag and Drop		Iconographer has extensive support for drag-and-drop, both within the program and from other programs as well. To scale one icon size to another, all one needs to do is to drag among them. In addition, to make a mask out of the icon contents (a sillouete will be generated), a simple drag from an icon slot into a mask slot is all that is necessary.	Others		To display the preview in the selected state, simply click in the preview area. The icons there will be darkened in exactly the same manner that the Finder uses. Click again to remove the darkening.	Table of Contents		Iconographer Help				Type some words and click Search, or select a topic below to learn more.			Introduction	Icon Basics	Tools	Selections	Additional Operations	Preferences	Shortcuts and Tips	Integration with Other Programs	Working with Other Platforms	Registration	Program Info				Tools	The Selection Tools		For more details on the various selection operations that can be performed, see the selections section.	 Rectangular Marquee		Keyboard shortcut: M	Double-click shortcut: The whole icon is selected.	Modifiers: Before the mouse is clicked, shift turns on additive mode while option turns on subtractive mode. After it is clicked, option causes the initial point to be used as the center of the rectangle. Shift constrains the drawing of the rectangle to a 1:1 aspect ratio.	Description: The rectangular marquee tool is used to make rectangular selections with one of the corners at the starting point (the place where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the mouse was let go of).	 Move		Keyboard shortcut: V	Modifiers: Option causes a copy to be left behind at the original location. Shift constrains the movement to 45¡ intervals.	Description: The move tool is used to displace selections. It causes a selection to be floated (if it isn't already) and make it glide over the rest of the contents of the drawing. Also note that the selection can be moved around in one pixel increments (or 10 if the shift key is held down) by using the arrow keys.	 Lasso		Keyboard shortcut: L	Double-click shortcut: The polygonal lasso mode is enabled.	Modifiers: Before the mouse is clicked, shift turns on additive mode while option turns on subtractive mode. After the mouse is clicked, option toggles polygonal mode on.	Description: The lasso tool is used to draw an irregular selection shape which then "tightens" around the contents. The tightening is done by looking at which pixels match the background color, and then "going through" those pixels.	 Magic Wand		Keyboard shortcut: W	Modifiers: Before the mouse is clicked, shift turns on additive mode while option turns on subtractive mode.	Description: : The magic wand is used to select areas of the same color. When you click on a pixel, all adjacent pixels which have the same color will be selected.	The Drawing Tools	The drawing tools normally operate on the whole icon, except when a selection is present, when they are restricted to the boundaries of the selection. Pencil		Keyboard shortcut: N	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. Shift constrains the movement to the vertical or the horizontal only.	Description: The pencil tool operates while the mouse button is held down over the drawing area. It leaves a trail of pixels on the locations over which the mouse has passed. Normally it sets pixels to the foreground color, but if the initial pixel was already that color, then the background color is used.	 Eye Dropper		Keyboard shortcut: I	Modifiers: Options makes the color be stored in the background color slot.	Description: The eyedropper tool is used to sample the colors already in the drawing. By moving the cursor over a pixel and clicking, the foreground color is set to the color of that pixel.	 Paint Bucket		Keyboard shortcut: K	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper.	Description: The paint bucket tool is used to fill areas with the foreground and background colors (the mixing is specified by the pattern selected in the pattern swatch). The area that is to be filled is determined by the area which is continuous (same color) to the starting point.	 Eraser		Keyboard shortcut: E	Double-click shortcut: The whole icon is erased.	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. Shift constrains the movement to the vertical or the horizontal only.	Description: The eraser tool acts just like the pencil tool, except that it sets the pixels to the background color.	 Rectangle		Keyboard shortcut: R	Double-click shortcut: Toggles between drawing rectangles empty or filled with the background color and the pattern specified in the pattern swatch.	Modifiers: Before the mouse is clicked, option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. After it clicked, option causes the initial point to be used as the center of the rectangle. Shift constrains the drawing of the rectangle to a 1:1 aspect ratio.	Description: The rectangle tool draws a rectangle with one of the corners at the starting point (the place where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the mouse was let go of).	 Oval		Keyboard shortcut: O	Double-click shortcut: Toggles between drawing ovals empty or filled with the background color and the pattern specified in the pattern swatch.	Modifiers: Before the mouse is clicked, option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. After it clicked, option causes the initial point to be used as the center of the oval. Shift constrains the drawing of the oval to a 1:1 aspect ratio.	Description: The oval tool draws an oval with one of the corners at the starting point (the place where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the mouse was let go of).	 Line		Keyboard Shortcut: Y	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. Shift constrains the line drawing to 45¡ intervals.	Description: The line tool draws a line connecting the initial point (the point where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the mouse was let go of).	 Polygon		Keyboard Shortcut: P	Double-click shortcut: Toggles between drawing polygons empty or filled with the background color and the pattern specified in the pattern swatch.	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. After the mouse is down, shift constrains the line drawing to 45¡ intervals.	Description: The polygon tool is used to draw irregularly shaped polygons. After the initial click which establishes the starting point, each additional click adds a vertex to the polygon. To complete the polygon, either click back at the starting point, or double-click to connect the current point with the initial vertex.	 Gradient		Keyboard Shortcut: G	Double-click shortcut: Toggles between drawing gradients linearly or radially.	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper. After the mouse is down, shift constrains the gradient direction to 45¡ intervals.	Description: The gradient tool is used to draw smooth transitions between the foreground and background colors. In a manner similar to the line tool, a starting and an ending point are chosen, and then a gradient is drawn between them.	 Text		Keyboard Shortcut: T	Modifiers: Option temporarily transforms the tool into an eye-dropper.	Description: The text tool is used to draw text on the icon. After the mouse is clicked, a dialog which allows you to choose the font, size, style and the text is shown. After that dialog is dismissed, the text is inserted into a selection placed at the point that was clicked.	Table of Contents